---
title: "Laser Box"
permalink: /project/project_box/
categories:
  - Mini Project
header:
  image: assets/images/project_laser_half2.jpg
tags:
  - table of contents
toc: true
toc_label: "Unique Title"
toc_icon: "heart"
gallery:
  - image_path: .//media/image1.jpeg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
  - image_path: .//media/image2.jpeg
    alt: "placeholder image 4"
---
## Executive summary

As soon as I read the project syllabus, I realized there is no other
place than Korea itself that holds special meaning to me. I spend at
least 15 years of my life back there, and every place that holds
significant meaning to me exists in my home country, South Korea. I came
to an approach where I wanted to create a box that contains an
aesthetical value from Korea. I realized that Korea's old window design
has an exotic and complicated look that can be applied to a box shape.
As a final product, my laser box contains six different designs from the
Korean traditional window.

5 different types of fasteners and joints were used for assembly:

-   T joint (split of "mortise" and "tenon")

-   Finger joint

-   Cross Joint

-   Hinge

-   Butt Joint

> These joints were specifically chosen because they were easily
> printable by laser printer without any use of the green machine tools.
> Using green machining tools might not allow the amount of precision I
> wanted for the box, so I decided to not use any machining tools. T
> joints, Finger joints, and a butt joint are used to connect each side
> of the box. The hinge was used to create an open and close function to
> the box with the use of a cross joint.

-   Glue

-   Nail

-   Screw

-   Bolt

-   String

> Glue was used to give a basic connection between the overall structure
> of the box. For a better connection, nails were applied to several
> corners of the box. Screws and bolts were used to connect the hinge.
> Strings were applied to butt joint, for a better connection and
> aesthetic view.

## Sketches

{% include gallery caption="This is a sample gallery with **Markdown support**." %}

## SolidWorks Models