---
title: "Social Technology Enterprise with Purpose (STEP)"
permalink: /project/project_step/
categories:
  - Project
header:
  image: assets/images/sunny2.jpg
tags:
  - Accessibility
  - Swift
  - iOS
  - Prototyping
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "heart"
toc_sticky: true

gallery:
  - image_path: /assets/images/elic/1.jpg
    url: /assets/images/elic/1.jpg

---

## Introduction

Intro to class, what I wanted to gain, what was the project about (possibly the presentation), what was I hoping for, how did it end.

## Design

1. Explain about different interviews/process we took to understand the users (3~4 interviews for sprint 1)
2. Idea Synthesis and Co-designing on sprint 2, about 2 interviews.
3. Ideating Session with the whole class (include the picture)

4. research on buttons, prototyping multiple to check the feasibility. Interview with the prototypes (2 interviews)

## iOS App Development

1. Explain what was the purpose of the app dev, why I joined the app team.
2. Explain that I started with the news reader development while other team did routing. 
3. Defining key features of the app and become the integration person for the team. Explain the experience I had by trying to integrate all different people's work to a single work - making map view and also using API to create another news reader
4. Finishing the first version of the app and demoing - the step video me showing the gesture control, the video we took before the demo to explain our work (rishita)
5. Added music control
6. User interview, getting the real feedback and start working on that. (add gesture speech, make it more voice over like)
7. Fixing the bug that made it not work in the locked screen.
8. Re-struturing and integrating the app again so that it is actually hands-free. Add videos I took before the demo day for explanation
9. demo day - videos that sam posted in general, using the app with 3~4 different devices.
10. Changing the interaction more user friendly (more direct)

## Reflection

How was my learning experience? What did I feel about STEP?

## Future Works

Talk about my AHS Capstone